SOURCE: Interim Progress Review Samyam Shrestha.pdf

--- PAGE 1 ---
CMP6200 / DIG6200
Individual Undergraduate Project (FYP)
Interim Progress Review
The Holistic Mind: A Trauma-Informed,
AI-Powered Mobile Application for Mental
Health Self-Regulation
Student Name: Samyam Shrestha
Student ID: 23189645
Supervisor: Rabin Ghimire
Reporting Period: 27 April 2026 to 14 June 2026
Date: 14th June 2026
--- PAGE 2 ---
Interim Progress Review
Contents
1 Log of Completed Activities and Milestones 2
2 Reflection and Iteration 2
2.1 2.2 Progress Against Original Timeline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Evidence of Current Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
3 Challenges Faced and Resolution Approaches 4
4 Action Plan: Objectives for Next Period 4
5 Other Considerations 4
6 Questions for Supervisor 5
1
--- PAGE 3 ---
Interim Progress Review
1 Log of Completed Activities and Milestones
Since the writing of the project proposal, the progress of the project has moved from
researchtoimplementation. Theliteraturereviewalongwithotherdocumen-tations
has been done. These include trauma-informed design, recommendations in mental
health, user modeling, ethical issues, and personal self-regulation tools for those
adults that had a traumatic past and have ADHD disorder. In terms of practical
development of the application, the development process has started. React Native
framework has been used for building the application due to the fact that it provides
ability to create a mobile application using a single codebase for two operating
systems: iOS and Android. This approach is consistent with the cross-platform
concept proposed for the project. Firebase has been setup as the backend for our
system. For authentication por- poses, Firebase Authentication framework has been
used; moreover, Google Authentica- tion has also been integrated into the system.
Login portal has been designed and, after logging in, the user is asked onboarding
questions regarding his or her experi- ence. The basic information collected will help
to profile the user further.
The key completed activities are:
• Completed the literature review and project documentation.
• Selected React Native as the final mobile development framework.
• Set up Firebase as the backend service.
• Implemented the login portal using Firebase Authentication.
• Integrated Google authentication.
• Created the initial enrolment page.
• Started the onboarding question flow for user profiling.
2 Reflection and Iteration
2.1 Progress Against Original Timeline
Current Project Status: On Track
The project remains within its time frame. The research, documentation, framework
choice, Firebase implementation, authentication system design, and initial user on-
boarding processes have all been achieved. While there was a more comprehensive
development process timeline in the original Gantt Chart, the current one has placed
an emphasis on building the technical structure of the app. The recommendation
2
--- PAGE 4 ---
Interim Progress Review
engine and self-regulation content will follow the development of the authentication
and enrolment processes.
Figure 1: Updated project Gantt chart showing completed, in-progress, and upcoming
tasks
2.2 Evidence of Current Implementation
The following screenshots show the current prototype progress and provide evidence
of the implementation completed so far.
Figure 2: Login screen developed using React Native
3
--- PAGE 5 ---
Interim Progress Review
3 Challenges Faced and Resolution Approaches
Table 1: Challenges faced and solutions attempted
Challenge Faced Impact on Project ResolutionAttempted
Choosing an appropriate
mobile framework
This required considera-
tions such as compati-
bility, development dura-
tion, and maintenance.
The React Native mo-
bile framework was cho-
sen since it supports iOS
and Android within a sin-
gle codebase.
Setting up Firebase and
Google Sign In
This took more time than
anticipated due to set-up
and testing processes.
Firebase has been config-
ured for Authentication
services and tested via
Google Sign In.
Constructing onboarding
questions for a touchy
subject
Questions posed may
seem very clinical and/or
overwhelming for users.
Onboarding has been de-
signed to be friendly and
supportive rather than
clinical and diagnostic.
4 Action Plan: Objectives for Next Period
In the following period, the key goals will include completing the core user flow and
tying onboarding inputs to the recommendation engine. All onboarding inputs will
be finalized, with all responses safely stored in Firebase. Thereafter, the five-level
emotional check-ins will be developed to serve as the key inputs to the recommen-
dation engine.
In order to make the recommendation engine as transparent as possible, it will
be kept rule-based initially so that its internal logic remains transparent for use
in the small scale prototype. Following this, the home dashboard, along with the
initial self-regulation content modules of breathwork and somatic techniques, will
be implemented.
5 Other Considerations
The general goal of the project has not changed significantly. The project will still
continue to develop a trauma-informed and AI-powered mobile application aimed
at facilitating the self-regulation of the nervous system. The only difference is that
4
--- PAGE 6 ---
Interim Progress Review
now React Native is chosen as the final development framework rather than letting
the developer choose between React Native and Flutter.
The application will remain in both ethical and technological limits. It will not
diagnose nor give any therapeutic or crisis services but will offer exercises for nervous
system self-regulation on the basis of user preferences.
6 Questions for Supervisor
1. Should the recommendation engine in its initial phase be rule-based before
applying preference learning?
2. Is the implementation direction I am using currently appropriate for my final
project goals?
3. Should recommendations be explainable to users, for example showing why a
breathing or somatic exercise was suggested?
4. How can I evaluate whether the personalised recommendation is actually
better than a random or non-personalised suggestion?
5